



intarea                                                         J. Cohen
Internet-Draft                                                      Self
Intended status: Informational                              4 March 2024
Expires: 5 September 2024


                                 Sample
                       draft-joshco-sample-latest

Abstract

   A mechanism is needed to permit web clients to locate nearby web
   proxy caches.  Current best practice is for end users to hand
   configure their web client (i.e., browser) with the URL of an "auto
   configuration file".  In large environments this presents a
   formidable support problem.  It would be much more manageable for the
   web client software to automatically learn the configuration
   information for its web proxy settings.  This is typically referred
   to as a resource discovery problem.

   Web client implementers are faced with a dizzying array of resource
   discovery protocols at varying levels of implementation and
   deployment.  This complexity is hampering deployment of a "web proxy
   auto-discovery "facility.  This document proposes a pragmatic
   approach to web proxy auto-discovery.  It draws on a number of
   proposed standards in the light of practical deployment concerns.  It
   proposes an escalating strategy of resource discovery attempts in
   order to find a nearby web proxy server.  It attempts to provide rich
   mechanisms for supporting a complex environment, which may contain
   multiple web proxy servers.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/joshco/wpadng.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 5 September 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2024 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The problem of locating nearby web proxy cache servers can not wait
   for the implementation and large scale deployment of various

   upcoming resource discovery protocols.  The widespread success of the
   HTTP protocol and the recent popularity of streaming media has placed
   unanticipated strains on the networks of corporations, ISPs and
   backbone providers.  There currently is no effective method for these
   organizations to realize the obvious benefits of web caching without
   tedious and error prone configuration by each and every end user.

   The de-facto mechanism for specifying a web proxy server
   configuration in web clients is the download of a script or
   configuration file named by a URL.  Users are currently expected to
   hand configure this URL into their Browser or other web client.  This
   mechanism suffers from a number of drawbacks:

   *  Difficulty in supporting a large body of end-users.  Many users
      misconfigure their proxy settings and are unable to diagnose the
      cause of their problems.

   *  Lack of support for mobile clients who require a different proxy
      as their point of access changes.

   *  Lack of support for complex proxy environments where there may
      exist a number of proxy servers with different affinities for
      different clients (based on network proximity, for example).
      Currently, clients would have to "know" which proxy server was
      optimal for their use.

   Currently available methods for resource discovery need to be
   exploited in the context of a well defined framework.  Simple,
   functional and efficient mechanisms stand a good chance of solving
   this pressing and basic need.  As new resource discovery mechanisms
   mature they can be folded into this framework with little difficulty.

   This document is a specification for implementers of web client
   software.  It defines a protocol for automatically configuring those
   clients to use a local proxy.  It also defines how an administrator
   should configure various resource discovery services in their network
   to support WPAD compatible web clients.

   While it does contain suggestions for web proxy server implementers,
   it does not make any specific demands of those parties.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Josh Cohen
   Self
   Email: joshco@gmail.com
